We are going to get into
here in real time exercises
WebSockets exercise socket.io that is your
next set of exercises that
you need to be on and
I'm going to go to Pitt deli/intro,
real time.
We're down here on intro to socket.io.
So we went through and we did all
those that socket stuff by hand,
it is not fun in the sense of like this
was fun to write, but there's absolutely
nothing that I would want to ever
maintain in production, right?
There's just a lot that
can go wrong there, right,
there's a lot of just surface areas for
bugs that you could have.
It'd be way better if we could get
someone, some open source community
to maintain some really nice library
that handles all this for us,
then we could all contribute
just to the same thing.
For WebSockets, that means probably one of
two libraries that you would use one would
be socket.io,
which is the one that we're about to use.
And one would be WS,
which is WebSockets as you might
have guessed,
let's just chat a second about Ws.
It's an awesome library and
I'll be honest,
most of the time I choose Ws
over socket IO personally.
But it's like the difference between
having like a really nice helper
library for WebSockets and
a framework on top of WebSockets, right?
So Ws is just like hey, I need a WebSocket
and I'm Fitting this into another
piece of a bigger system that I
have,it's mostly what I do, right?
Then Ws is perfect for that, they
basically take that web socket interface,
that we have on the client
that we wrote together, right?
And they kind of make that same
sort of like minimal interface,
for the server, and
that's really all that ws does.
It's an awesome library one that you
should definitely go give a shot
after we do all this together, it's great.
I have nothing but good things to say
about them and their maintainers.
The other one that is probably
more popular is called
socket.io socket.io is like
a full on framework for
WebSockets so the it it just
adds a lot more functionality.
Like there's things like you can
add like rooms, for example, right?
Like if you had, you know,
10 different chat rooms,
socket.io has the ability to have
the concept of rooms that I'm sticking
this group of users on this room and
this group of users in this room.
They can subscribe to different
channels and different messages and
things like that, like pub sub,
if you've ever heard that concept before,
is like built into socket.io.
pub sub is this idea of Publish and
subscribe, so
it's kind of basically what we were
doing between the client and the server.
They basically have a bunch of clients
that subscribe to like a topics of ideas,
right, so it does a bunch of really
interesting things like that.
Like if I was gonna today go make like
a Google Docs like collaborative editing
environment probably use something
like socket.io because there's so
much functionality that
they built into that.
That would be very useful for
some large scale real skit
like real time application.
Whereas like, if I'm just doing like
a WebSocket to share my if I'm online or
not,
I wouldn't use socket io for
such a small task, I would use Ws.
Actually Ws is so small that they don't
even have a client library you actually
use that new WebSocket thing that
we were using on the client, right?
So that's how minimalistic it is, so,
if you ask me which one I prefer
the answer is just it depends.
Do I have a big project or a small
project, big projects socket.io small
projects Ws are maybe features
a better way of putting that.
What else socket.io does middleware
like you know like with express.js,
you can actually add middleware's in there
to like do things in the middle between of
when you receive a request when you
reply to it socket.io has that built in.
It has great support for sending binary
like large binary objects like photos,
audio video that works really well.
socket.io something cool that
we actually will see with
socket.io It does fall back, so
let's say you connect to a user.
And that user is using, I don't know,
Internet Explorer eight,
where it doesn't support WebSockets,
but it does support long polling.
It'll actually behind the scenes
switch to long polling for you, so
that that user can still
get real time information,
that it it'll just be long polling,
socket.io has an audit built in.
You actually don't have to
change anything about your code,
socket.io has like this cool kind
of establishes a connection and
then makes connections for and
does polling to get that information.
Yeah, socket.io has the ability to
like connect to MongoDB directly so
you can actually do change feed
directly from Mongo, from Redis.
You can get real time change
feeds from Redis or Postgres or
side socket.io has client ID connect
with all these databases, directly.
So that's just some of the difference,
whereas WS is just as WebSockets,
doesn't do anything else, just WebSockets.